README.md, before:

<p align=center><img src="https://alekslitvinenk.github.io/docker-openvpn/assets/img/logo-s.png"></p><br>

<p align="center">
<a href="https://github.com/alekslitvinenk/docker-openvpn/blob/master/README.md">[English]</a>
<a href="https://github.com/alekslitvinenk/docker-openvpn/blob/master/docs/README_RU.md">[Русский]</a>
<br>

![Build Version](http://cicd.dockovpn.io/version/dockovpn)
![Build Status](http://cicd.dockovpn.io/build/dockovpn)
[![Tests Status](http://cicd.dockovpn.io/tests/dockovpn)](https://cicd.dockovpn.io/reports/dockovpn)
![Build Time](http://cicd.dockovpn.io/built/dockovpn)
[![Docker Pulls](https://img.shields.io/docker/pulls/alekslitvinenk/openvpn.svg)](https://hub.docker.com/r/alekslitvinenk/openvpn/)
[![Gitter chat](https://img.shields.io/badge/chat-on_gitter-50b6bb.svg)](https://gitter.im/docker-openvpn/community)
![GitHub](https://img.shields.io/github/license/dockovpn/dockovpn)

# 🔐DockOvpn

## Thanks
I would like to thank Aleks and https://dockervpn.io for creating this wonderful container. I have forked their work to modify the image build process. I will try to follow their updates as soon as they are performed, and maintain an updated and well working code and container.

Out of the box stateless VPN server docker image which starts in just a few seconds and doesn't require, but allows persistent storage. To get it running,  just copy & paste the snippet below and follow instructions in your terminal:
```bash
docker run -it --rm --cap-add=NET_ADMIN \
-p 1194:1194/udp -p 80:8080/tcp \
-e HOST_ADDR=$(curl -s https://api.ipify.org) \
--name dockovpn etzion/openvpn
```
To get more detailed information, go to [Quick Start](#-quick-start) tutorial or watch [video](https://youtu.be/y5Dwakc6hMs).

## Website
https://dockovpn.io

## GitHub Repo:
https://github.com/dockovpn/dockovpn

## DockerHub Repo:
https://hub.docker.com/r/etzion/openvpn

### Docker Tags
| Tag    | Description |
| :----: | :---------: |
| `latest` | This tag is added to every newly built version be that `v#.#.#` or `v#.#.#-regen-dh` |
| `v#.#.#` | Standard fixed release version, where {1} is _major version_, {2} - _minor_ and {3} is a _patch_. For instance, `v1.1.0` |
| `v#.#.#-regen-dh` | Release version with newly generated Deffie Hellman security file. In order to keep security high this version is generated every hour. Tag example - `v1.1.0-regen-dh` |
| `dev` | Development build which contains the most recent changes from the active development branch (master) |

### Environment variables
| Variable | Description | Default value |
| :------: | :---------: | :-----------: |
| NET_ADAPTER | Network adapter to use on the host machine | eth0 |
| HOST_ADDR | Host address to advertise in the client config file | localhost |
| HOST_TUN_PORT | Tunnel port to advertise in the client config file | 1194 |
| HOST_CONF_PORT | HTTP port on the host machine to download the client config file | 80 |

**⚠️ Note:** In the provided code snippet we advertise the configuration suitable for the most users. We don't recommend setting custom 
NET_ADAPTER and HOST_ADDR unless you absolutely have to. HOST_ADDR is determined automatically by running shell subcommand `$(curl -s https://api.ipify.org)`.
More often you'd like to customize HOST_TUN_PORT and HOST_CONF_PORT. If this is the case, use the snippet below (dont forget to replace `<custom port>` with your values):

```shell
DOCKOVPN_CONFIG_PORT=<custom port>
DOCKOVPN_TUNNEL_PORT=<custom port>
docker run -it --rm --cap-add=NET_ADMIN \
-p $DOCKOVPN_TUNNEL_PORT:1194/udp -p $DOCKOVPN_CONFIG_PORT:8080/tcp \
-e HOST_ADDR=$(curl -s https://api.ipify.org) \
-e HOST_CONF_PORT="$DOCKOVPN_CONFIG_PORT" \
-e HOST_TUN_PORT="$DOCKOVPN_TUNNEL_PORT" \
--name dockovpn etzion/openvpn
```

### Container commands
After container was run using `docker run` command, it's possible to execute additional commands using `docker exec` command. For example, `docker exec <container id> ./version.sh`. See table below to get the full list of supported commands.

| Command  | Description | Parameters | Example |
| :------: | :---------: | :--------: | :-----: |
| `./version.sh` | Outputs full container version, i.e `Dockovpn v1.2.0` |  | `docker exec dockovpn ./version.sh` |
| `./genclient.sh` | Generates new client configuration | `z` — Optional. Puts newly generated client.ovpn file into client.zip archive.<br><br>`zp paswd` — Optional. Puts newly generated client.ovpn file into client.zip archive with password `pswd` <br><br>`o` — Optional. Prints cert to the output. <br><br>`oz` — Optional. Prints zipped cert to the output. Use with output redirection. <br><br>`ozp paswd` — Optional. Prints encrypted zipped cert to the output. Use with output redirection. | `docker exec dockovpn ./genclient.sh`<br><br>`docker exec dockovpn ./genclient.sh z`<br><br>`docker exec dockovpn ./genclient.sh zp 123` <br><br>`docker exec dockovpn ./genclient.sh o > client.ovpn`<br><br>`docker exec dockovpn ./genclient.sh oz > client.zip` <br><br>`docker exec dockovpn ./genclient.sh ozp paswd > client.zip`| 
 | `./rmclient.sh` | Revokes client certificate thus making him/her anable to connect to given Dockovpn server. | Client Id, i.e `vFOoQ3Hngz4H790IpRo6JgKR6cMR3YAp`. | `docker exec dockovpn ./rmclient.sh vFOoQ3Hngz4H790IpRo6JgKR6cMR3YAp` |

## 📺 Video Guide
<p align=center><a href="https://youtu.be/y5Dwakc6hMs"><img src="https://alekslitvinenk.github.io/docker-openvpn/assets/img/video-cover-play.png"></a></p><br>

## 🚀 Quick Start 

### Prerequisites:
1. Any hardware or vps/vds server running Linux. You should have administrative rights on this machine.
2. Docker installation on your server.
3. Public ip address assigned to your server.

### 1. Run dockovpn
Copy & paste the following command to run docker-openvpn:<br>
```bash
docker run -it --rm --cap-add=NET_ADMIN \
-p 1194:1194/udp -p 80:8080/tcp \
-e HOST_ADDR=$(curl -s https://api.ipify.org) \
--name dockovpn etzion/openvpn
```
**⚠️ Note:** This snippet runs Dockovpn in attached mode, which means if you close your terminal window, container will be stopped. 
To prevent this from happening, you first need to detach container from ssh session. Type `Ctrl+P Ctrl+Q`.

If everything went well, you should be able to see the following output in your console:
```
Sun Jun  9 08:56:11 2019 Initialization Sequence Completed
Sun Jun  9 08:56:12 2019 Client.ovpn file has been generated
Sun Jun  9 08:56:12 2019 Config server started, download your client.ovpn config at http://example.com:8080/
Sun Jun  9 08:56:12 2019 NOTE: After you download you client config, http server will be shut down!
 ```
### 2. Get client configuration
Now, when your dockovpn is up and running you can go to `<your_host_public_ip>:8080` on your device and download ovpn client configuration.
As soon as you have your config file downloaded, you will see the following output in the console:<br>
```
Sun Jun  9 09:01:15 2019 Config http server has been shut down
```
Import `client.ovpn` into your favourite openvpn client. In most cases it should be enough to just doubleclick or tap on that file.


### 3. Connect to your docker-openvpn container
You should be able to see your newly added client configuration in the list of available configurations. Click on it, connection process should initiate and be established within few seconds.

Congratulations, now you're all set and can safely browse the internet.

## Persisting configuration
There's a possibility to persist generated files in volume storage. Run docker with
```bash
-v openvpn_conf:/opt/Dockovpn_data
```
There's a possibility to persist openVPN configuration files in volume storage. Append
```bash
-v openvpn_etc:/etc/openvpn
```

## Alternative way. Run with docker-compose
Sometimes it is more convenient to use [docker-compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/).

To run dockvpn with docker-compose run:
```bash
echo HOST_ADDR=$(curl -s https://api.ipify.org) > .env && \
docker-compose up -d && \
docker-compose exec -d dockovpn wget -O /doc/Dockovpn/client.ovpn localhost:8080
```

After run this command you can find your `client.ovpn` inside `openvpn_conf` folder.

## Error message "modprobe: can't change directory to '/lib/modules': No such file or directory"
This is caused by missing modules on the host. Enforce loading these modules on the container host:
1. iptable_filter
2. iptable_nat
For RedHat type systems, to load these modules on-boot, create a file for each in /etc/modules-load.d like this:
```bash
echo "iptable_filter" > /etc/modules-load.d/iptable_filter.conf
echo "iptable_nat" > /etc/modules-load.d/iptable_nat.conf
```
Manually load the modules using the command:
```bash
modprobe iptable_filter
modprobe iptable_nat
```

# Other resources
[Contrubition Guidelines](https://github.com/alekslitvinenk/docker-openvpn/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md)<br>
[Code Of Conduct](https://github.com/alekslitvinenk/docker-openvpn/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md)<br>
[Release Guideline](https://github.com/alekslitvinenk/docker-openvpn/blob/master/docs/RELEASE_GUIDELINE.md)<br>
[License Agreement](https://github.com/alekslitvinenk/docker-openvpn/blob/master/LICENSE)

Commit message:

Add support for nginx frontend to enforce obtaining the ovpn configuration file securely

README.md, after:

<p align=center><img src="https://alekslitvinenk.github.io/docker-openvpn/assets/img/logo-s.png"></p><br>

<p align="center">
<a href="https://github.com/alekslitvinenk/docker-openvpn/blob/master/README.md">[English]</a>
<a href="https://github.com/alekslitvinenk/docker-openvpn/blob/master/docs/README_RU.md">[Русский]</a>
<br>

![Build Version](http://cicd.dockovpn.io/version/dockovpn)
![Build Status](http://cicd.dockovpn.io/build/dockovpn)
[![Tests Status](http://cicd.dockovpn.io/tests/dockovpn)](https://cicd.dockovpn.io/reports/dockovpn)
![Build Time](http://cicd.dockovpn.io/built/dockovpn)
[![Docker Pulls](https://img.shields.io/docker/pulls/alekslitvinenk/openvpn.svg)](https://hub.docker.com/r/alekslitvinenk/openvpn/)
[![Gitter chat](https://img.shields.io/badge/chat-on_gitter-50b6bb.svg)](https://gitter.im/docker-openvpn/community)
![GitHub](https://img.shields.io/github/license/dockovpn/dockovpn)

# 🔐DockOvpn

## Thanks
I would like to thank Aleks and https://dockervpn.io for creating this wonderful container. I have forked their work to modify the image build process. I will try to follow their updates as soon as they are performed, and maintain an updated and well working code and container.

Out of the box stateless VPN server docker image which starts in just a few seconds and doesn't require, but allows persistent storage. To get it running,  just copy & paste the snippet below and follow instructions in your terminal:
```bash
docker run -it --rm --cap-add=NET_ADMIN \
-p 1194:1194/udp -p 80:8080/tcp \
-e HOST_ADDR=$(curl -s https://api.ipify.org) \
--name dockovpn etzion/openvpn
```
To get more detailed information, go to [Quick Start](#-quick-start) tutorial or watch [video](https://youtu.be/y5Dwakc6hMs).

## Website
https://dockovpn.io

## GitHub Repo:
https://github.com/dockovpn/dockovpn

## DockerHub Repo:
https://hub.docker.com/r/etzion/openvpn

### Docker Tags
| Tag    | Description |
| :----: | :---------: |
| `latest` | This tag is added to every newly built version be that `v#.#.#` or `v#.#.#-regen-dh` |
| `v#.#.#` | Standard fixed release version, where {1} is _major version_, {2} - _minor_ and {3} is a _patch_. For instance, `v1.1.0` |
| `v#.#.#-regen-dh` | Release version with newly generated Deffie Hellman security file. In order to keep security high this version is generated every hour. Tag example - `v1.1.0-regen-dh` |
| `dev` | Development build which contains the most recent changes from the active development branch (master) |

### Environment variables
| Variable | Description | Default value |
| :------: | :---------: | :-----------: |
| NET_ADAPTER | Network adapter to use on the host machine | eth0 |
| HOST_ADDR | Host address to advertise in the client config file | localhost |
| HOST_TUN_PORT | Tunnel port to advertise in the client config file | 1194 |
| HOST_CONF_PORT | HTTP port on the host machine to download the client config file | 80 |

**⚠️ Note:** In the provided code snippet we advertise the configuration suitable for the most users. We don't recommend setting custom 
NET_ADAPTER and HOST_ADDR unless you absolutely have to. HOST_ADDR is determined automatically by running shell subcommand `$(curl -s https://api.ipify.org)`.
More often you'd like to customize HOST_TUN_PORT and HOST_CONF_PORT. If this is the case, use the snippet below (dont forget to replace `<custom port>` with your values):

```shell
DOCKOVPN_CONFIG_PORT=<custom port>
DOCKOVPN_TUNNEL_PORT=<custom port>
docker run -it --rm --cap-add=NET_ADMIN \
-p $DOCKOVPN_TUNNEL_PORT:1194/udp -p $DOCKOVPN_CONFIG_PORT:8080/tcp \
-e HOST_ADDR=$(curl -s https://api.ipify.org) \
-e HOST_CONF_PORT="$DOCKOVPN_CONFIG_PORT" \
-e HOST_TUN_PORT="$DOCKOVPN_TUNNEL_PORT" \
--name dockovpn etzion/openvpn
```

### Container commands
After container was run using `docker run` command, it's possible to execute additional commands using `docker exec` command. For example, `docker exec <container id> ./version.sh`. See table below to get the full list of supported commands.

| Command  | Description | Parameters | Example |
| :------: | :---------: | :--------: | :-----: |
| `./version.sh` | Outputs full container version, i.e `Dockovpn v1.2.0` |  | `docker exec dockovpn ./version.sh` |
| `./genclient.sh` | Generates new client configuration | `z` — Optional. Puts newly generated client.ovpn file into client.zip archive.<br><br>`zp paswd` — Optional. Puts newly generated client.ovpn file into client.zip archive with password `pswd` <br><br>`o` — Optional. Prints cert to the output. <br><br>`oz` — Optional. Prints zipped cert to the output. Use with output redirection. <br><br>`ozp paswd` — Optional. Prints encrypted zipped cert to the output. Use with output redirection. | `docker exec dockovpn ./genclient.sh`<br><br>`docker exec dockovpn ./genclient.sh z`<br><br>`docker exec dockovpn ./genclient.sh zp 123` <br><br>`docker exec dockovpn ./genclient.sh o > client.ovpn`<br><br>`docker exec dockovpn ./genclient.sh oz > client.zip` <br><br>`docker exec dockovpn ./genclient.sh ozp paswd > client.zip`| 
 | `./rmclient.sh` | Revokes client certificate thus making him/her anable to connect to given Dockovpn server. | Client Id, i.e `vFOoQ3Hngz4H790IpRo6JgKR6cMR3YAp`. | `docker exec dockovpn ./rmclient.sh vFOoQ3Hngz4H790IpRo6JgKR6cMR3YAp` |

## 📺 Video Guide
<p align=center><a href="https://youtu.be/y5Dwakc6hMs"><img src="https://alekslitvinenk.github.io/docker-openvpn/assets/img/video-cover-play.png"></a></p><br>

## 🚀 Quick Start 

### Prerequisites:
1. Any hardware or vps/vds server running Linux. You should have administrative rights on this machine.
2. Docker installation on your server.
3. Public ip address assigned to your server.

### 1. Run dockovpn
Copy & paste the following command to run docker-openvpn:<br>
```bash
docker run -it --rm --cap-add=NET_ADMIN \
-p 1194:1194/udp -p 80:8080/tcp \
-e HOST_ADDR=$(curl -s https://api.ipify.org) \
--name dockovpn etzion/openvpn
```
**⚠️ Note:** This snippet runs Dockovpn in attached mode, which means if you close your terminal window, container will be stopped. 
To prevent this from happening, you first need to detach container from ssh session. Type `Ctrl+P Ctrl+Q`.

If everything went well, you should be able to see the following output in your console:
```
Sun Jun  9 08:56:11 2019 Initialization Sequence Completed
Sun Jun  9 08:56:12 2019 Client.ovpn file has been generated
Sun Jun  9 08:56:12 2019 Config server started, download your client.ovpn config at http://example.com:8080/
Sun Jun  9 08:56:12 2019 NOTE: After you download you client config, http server will be shut down!
 ```
### 2. Get client configuration
Now, when your dockovpn is up and running you can go to `<your_host_public_ip>:8080` on your device and download ovpn client configuration.
As soon as you have your config file downloaded, you will see the following output in the console:<br>
```
Sun Jun  9 09:01:15 2019 Config http server has been shut down
```
Import `client.ovpn` into your favourite openvpn client. In most cases it should be enough to just doubleclick or tap on that file.


### 3. Connect to your docker-openvpn container
You should be able to see your newly added client configuration in the list of available configurations. Click on it, connection process should initiate and be established within few seconds.

Congratulations, now you're all set and can safely browse the internet.

## Persisting configuration
There's a possibility to persist generated files in volume storage. Run docker with
```bash
-v openvpn_conf:/opt/Dockovpn_data
```
There's a possibility to persist openVPN configuration files in volume storage. Append
```bash
-v openvpn_etc:/etc/openvpn
```

## Alternative way. Run with docker-compose
Sometimes it is more convenient to use [docker-compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/).

To run dockvpn with docker-compose run:
```bash
echo HOST_ADDR=$(curl -s https://api.ipify.org) > .env && \
docker-compose up -d && \
docker-compose exec -d dockovpn wget -O /doc/Dockovpn/client.ovpn localhost:8080
```

After run this command you can find your `client.ovpn` inside `openvpn_data` folder.
An example working docker-compose.yaml file is provided here.

## Alternative with better security - Run with docker-compose and nginx frontend for vpn configuration file
Check out the code directory compose-with-nginx for an example here: https://github.com/ezaton/dockovpn/compose-with-nginx
This section is derieved from https://github.com/NotEgorL/docker-openvpn

## Error message "modprobe: can't change directory to '/lib/modules': No such file or directory"
This is caused by missing modules on the host. Enforce loading these modules on the container host:
1. iptable_filter
2. iptable_nat
For RedHat type systems, to load these modules on-boot, create a file for each in /etc/modules-load.d like this:
```bash
echo "iptable_filter" > /etc/modules-load.d/iptable_filter.conf
echo "iptable_nat" > /etc/modules-load.d/iptable_nat.conf
```
Manually load the modules using the command:
```bash
modprobe iptable_filter
modprobe iptable_nat
```

# Other resources
[Contrubition Guidelines](https://github.com/alekslitvinenk/docker-openvpn/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md)<br>
[Code Of Conduct](https://github.com/alekslitvinenk/docker-openvpn/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md)<br>
[Release Guideline](https://github.com/alekslitvinenk/docker-openvpn/blob/master/docs/RELEASE_GUIDELINE.md)<br>
[License Agreement](https://github.com/alekslitvinenk/docker-openvpn/blob/master/LICENSE)
